today we're celebrating asked a designer
the magazine this was a column that was
started 30 years ago and it's been going
strong ever since and now it's spawned
its own special issue and thanks to you
all your great questions and answers
over the years it's still the most read
part of house and home magazine today
we're gonna answer two questions that we
get over and over again some things
never change
common questions that are important the
first one is about sophist aisles people
are always asking me my advice because
sofas are a big investment and they
don't know what style to buy this
question comes from Cynthia and Chatham
who says my husband and I are finally
biting the bullet buying a really nice
sofa and of course we want it to be
comfortable and stand the test of time
you're so smart because an investment
piece like this can be with you your
whole life I even have a loveseat that
has been with me for 35 years has been
reupholstered four or five times has had
many different lives and is still going
strong for your investment sofa there
are two styles that I really like one of
you're going to recognize because it has
soft back either tight or with loose
cushions and it has a forward rolling
arm which we call the Williamsburg charm
it's usually up on turned legs or
straight legs and it's a good
transitional sofa it looks great with
antiques and it looks wonderful with
modern furniture you need to decide
whether you want to cushions three
cushions or a bench seat cushion that
goes all the way across the bench seat
cushion is a great way to update any
sofa the other style of sofa is the
tuxedo and whether your arms and your
back are the same height or your arms
are lower the important thing is that
you're buying a tailored sofa with
straight lines one of my favorite is the
Barbara berry from Baker I've used it
often my home in client's homes because
it mixes very well with every style of
furniture it has a nice low arm which is
comfortable for reading or watching TV
you can see across it and I just love
the simple lines so when you're buying
an investment piece you want to think
about what's inside those cushions
because more maximum comfort and you
want
my favorite mix is a foam core with a
feather wrap this gives you the crunch
of real down and the support of foam
still have to puff up those cushions
after you've been sitting for a while
which is a good thing and don't forget
you want zippers on all your cushions
because you want those covers to be
removable for cleaning there's one other
option and that's to buy a small piece
of furniture a loveseat or a settee
that has a particular look not
particularly comfortable but has a lot
of style this is a piece that will mix
well with your other furniture and be a
statement on its own the next question
has to do with lighting you know-nothing
gonna make a tired room look better
faster than great lighting and nothing
can ruin an otherwise great room faster
than really bad lighting
this homeowner Teresa from Boston he
needs to finish off her room with some
lighting she says it's a multi-purpose
family room where they read nap watch TV
and entertain it has high ceilings it
has bay windows but they're facing north
so the room is not so bright and she
wonders what combo of light fuse you're
right it is a combination general light
overhead light whether it's pot lights
or chandelier
mixed with some sconces it's whatever
brings the level of light up to a
generally acceptable level and then
there's task lighting which is my
favorite kind because that means all the
great lamps that are on the market today
I noticed that you have side tables on
either side of your sofa they're a
little too high hope you don't mind me
telling you but they beg for lamps so if
you're gonna leave them there you really
need a table lamp get a straight shade
because it's a little more contemporary
than a tapered shade and height you want
is a distance of 42 inches from the
floor to the bottom of your shade which
will sit just above your shoulder but my
preference would be to move those side
tables and to use floor lamps instead
and I suggest the Thomas O'Brien
designed lamp for visual comfort it's
great because it adjusts and has a paper
shade so it softly diffuses the light
and it's on a try light or a dimmer so
that you can control the amount of light
if you want to make a real statement
there's a third lamp it's like a piece
of sculpture in the corner
and you could use it on one side of the
sofa it's such a statement that you
really can have too so you have to worry
about matching and it has three heads so
you can control the light by turning
them all on or just one it's like a
piece of art a comb lamp could go right
here this lamp is going to cast light
down over your shoulder so it's really
only for you and you have to have an
angle just the right way so the bulb
it's not a glaring problem for everyone
else in the room you really do need some
art one big painting would be great
or you can do a grouping like a gallery
wall to keep things looking modern and
clean I suggest something big and low so
visually your eye joins the painting to
the sofa and while we're on the subject
these two little pieces here in the
corner aren't quite cutting it you need
a third or you need to lower them both
so that when you're sitting on a sofa or
chair your eyes looking right into the
middle of the grouping that's the right
height now on your desk
Teresa you really need a lamp this is
about the scale you want you can also do
a pair make them candlestick style so
they're tall and skinny and again keep
the shades straight so they're a little
more contemporary
they'll play off nicely against a
traditional antique desk
don't forget to pick up your copy of ask
a designer if you don't already have it
and please send us your questions and
then when you're finished send us some
shots of the results we'd love to see
what you've done
you